{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\uc1
{\fonttbl
{\f0\fnil\fcharset0\fprq0\fttruetype Times New Roman;}
{\f1\fnil\fcharset0\fprq0\fttruetype TeX Gyre Heros;}
{\f2\fnil\fcharset0\fprq0\fttruetype Liberation Sans;}
{\f3\fnil\fcharset0\fprq0\fttruetype Courier New;}}
{\colortbl
\red0\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;
\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\stylesheet
{\s6\fi-425\li720\sbasedon28\snext28 Contents 1;}
{\s7\fi-425\li1440\sbasedon28\snext28 Contents 2;}
{\s1\fi-425\li720 Arrowhead List;}
{\s27\fi-425\li720\sbasedon28 Lower Roman List;}
{\s29\tx431\sbasedon20\snext28 Numbered Heading 1;}
{\s30\tx431\sbasedon21\snext28 Numbered Heading 2;}
{\s12\fi-425\li720 Diamond List;}
{\s9\fi-425\li2880\sbasedon28\snext28 Contents 4;}
{\s8\fi-425\li2160\sbasedon28\snext28 Contents 3;}
{\s31\tx431\sbasedon22\snext28 Numbered Heading 3;}
{\s32\fi-425\li720 Numbered List;}
{\s15\sbasedon28 Endnote Text;}
{\*\cs14\fs20\super Endnote Reference;}
{\s4\fi-425\li720 Bullet List;}
{\s5\tx1584\sbasedon29\snext28 Chapter Heading;}
{\s35\fi-425\li720 Square List;}
{\s11\fi-425\li720 Dashed List;}
{\s22\sb440\sa60\f2\fs24\b\sbasedon28\snext28 Heading 3;}
{\s37\fi-425\li720 Tick List;}
{\s24\fi-425\li720 Heart List;}
{\s40\fi-425\li720\sbasedon32 Upper Roman List;}
{\s39\fi-425\li720\sbasedon32 Upper Case List;}
{\s16\fi-288\li288\fs20\sbasedon28 Footnote;}
{\s19\fi-425\li720 Hand List;}
{\s18\fs20\sbasedon28 Footnote Text;}
{\s20\sb440\sa60\f2\fs34\b\sbasedon28\snext28 Heading 1;}
{\s21\sb440\sa60\f2\fs28\b\sbasedon28\snext28 Heading 2;}
{\s10\qc\sb240\sa117\f2\fs32\b\sbasedon28\snext28 Contents Header;}
{\s23\sb440\sa60\f2\fs24\b\sbasedon28\snext28 Heading 4;}
{\s28\f0\fs24 Normal;}
{\s26\fi-425\li720\sbasedon32 Lower Case List;}
{\s2\li1440\ri1440\sa117\sbasedon28 Block Text;}
{\s33\f3\sbasedon28 Plain Text;}
{\s34\tx1584\sbasedon29\snext28 Section Heading;}
{\s25\fi-425\li720 Implies List;}
{\s3\fi-425\li720 Box List;}
{\s36\fi-425\li720 Star List;}
{\*\cs17\fs20\super Footnote Reference;}
{\s38\fi-425\li720 Triangle List;}
{\s13\fi-288\li288\sbasedon28 Endnote;}}
\kerning0\cf0\ftnbj\fet2\ftnstart1\ftnnar\aftnnar\ftnstart1\aftnstart1\aenddoc\revprop3{\*\rdf}{\info\uc1}\deftab720\viewkind1\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\widowctrl
{\header\pard\plain
\pard\plain\ltrpar\qr\sl240\slmult1\itap0{\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0}\abinodiroverride\ltrch Tejada}{\f0\fs24\b\lang1033{\*\listtag0} }{\field{\*\fldinst {\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0} PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\noproof  ?}}}}
\sectd\sbknone\colsx360\pgncont\ltrsect
\pard\plain\ltrpar\ql\s28\sl480\slmult1\itap0{\s28\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0}Edgar Tejada}{\s28\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0}\par}
\pard\plain\ltrpar\ql\s28\sl480\slmult1\itap0{\s28\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0}\abinodiroverride\ltrch Dr. Kelly}{\s28\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0}\par}
\pard\plain\ltrpar\ql\s28\sl480\slmult1\itap0{\s28\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0}\abinodiroverride\ltrch Writing 114: Environmental Writing}{\s28\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0}\par}
\pard\plain\ltrpar\ql\s28\sl480\slmult1\itap0{\s28\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0}\abinodiroverride\ltrch 13 May 2020}{\s28\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0}\par}
\pard\plain\ltrpar\qc\s28\sl480\slmult1\itap0{\s28\f0\fs24\b\lang1033{\*\listtag0}\abinodiroverride\ltrch The Day the EPA Died}{\s28\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0}\tab }{\s28\f0\fs24\b\lang1033{\*\listtag0}\par}
\pard\plain\ltrpar\ql\s28\sl480\slmult1\itap0{\s28\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0}\abinodiroverride\ltrch \tab It was an seemingly normal, dystopian day in late March of 2020 like any other day of that year, as the death toll for the Covid-19 was on the rise and uncertainty and fear were clouding the judgment of the American people. I was dealing with my own unclear situations as to where I should live and what directions I could move in as I was graduating from university into a gridlocked economy. Of course, my struggles as a person and the loss of loved ones resonated with everyone, but there was a much bigger death on that Thursday afternoon. It was a death I only recently came to grief, as the Environmental Protection Agency was pronounced dead at the age of 49 years old after a fatal blow that March 26th, 2020 at 14:57 PDT.}{\s28\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0}\par}
\pard\plain\ltrpar\ql\s28\sl480\slmult1\itap0{\s28\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0}\abinodiroverride\ltrch \tab On that day, the body of the EPA was defanged and desecrated after years of slowly being poisoned by Trump appointed leaders. It was through a memo that the Trump administration announced that the EPA, henceforth, \uc1\u8220\'93[W]}{\s28\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0}ouldn\uc1\u8217\'92t go after companies that fail to satisfy many \uc1\u8216\'91routine monitoring and reporting obligations\uc1\u8217\'92 because of the coronavirus, as long as they documented why they couldn\uc1\u8217\'92t fulfill the mandates\uc1\u8221\'94 (Dlouhy 1). This was, of course, after years of those same Trump appointees all undermining the mission statement of the EPA. These vectors of death}{\s28\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0} rolled back half a century\uc1\u8217\'92s worth of protections and standards for maintaining water and air quality at the thundering applause of record breaking stock prices and a never ending bull market. Those stock gains came and went, but the silent poisoning of the EPA finally ended that fateful Thursday. After an onslaught of necrotic chocking to its funding, to the past commitments to Superfund contamination sites, and to the end of car emission goals, the organization\uc1\u8217\'92s suffering ended abruptly (Stevens). No longer was there the false pretense that the EPA\uc1\u8217\'92s corpse should be protecting our natural resources against the wishes of the President or vested corporate interests. Instead, this murder happened under the perfect conditions to go unnoticed, to be forgotten and allow the American public to be gaslighted into a new, toxic normal.}{\s28\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0}\par}
\pard\plain\ltrpar\ql\s28\sl480\slmult1\itap0{\s28\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0}\abinodiroverride\ltrch \tab Make no mistake, the killing of the Environmental Protection Agency was an act of malice and cowardice. While millions of American\uc1\u8217\'92s were unemployed, thousands were dead, and the prospects of recovery were the focus of media outlets, the Trump administration took advantage of the chaos and uncertainty to quitely destroy a regulatory body that had long stood in the way of stripping the nations resources (}{\s28\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0}Southerland}{\s28\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0}). Instead of fighting against years of proven environmental standards through the process of revoking laws through Congress, the President used powers reserved for emergency situations as a smokescreen for permanent deregulation. Many states have fought back and sued the administration\uc1\u8217\'92s abuse, decrying that the \uc1\u8220\'93}{\s28\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0}EPA\uc1\u8217\'92s so-called non-enforcement policy is an illegal abdication of the agency\uc1\u8217\'92s statutory responsibilities}{\s28\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0}\uc1\u8221\'94 (}{\s28\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0}Larson}{\s28\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0}). Unfortunately, I think these attempts at resuscitation are too little too late, as the body has rotted beyond repair.}{\s28\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0}\par}
\pard\plain\ltrpar\ql\s28\sl480\slmult1\itap0{\s28\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0}\abinodiroverride\ltrch \tab So, on that morbid and horrifying note, let\uc1\u8217\'92s consider what the future really has in store.}{\s28\f0\fs24\lang1033{\*\listtag0}\par}
\pard\plain\ltrpar\ql\s28\sl480\slmult1\itap0\par}